Spring Boot provides a bunch of ready‑to‑use health indicators; however,
you can add your own custom health indicator.
For example,
let's say the Trackzilla application gets a list of people
or application owners from the HR API.
Let's add a custom health indicator to let us know if that HR
API is down and not accepting requests.
Let's see this process in action. I have opened the project,
and I've navigated to the PeopleHealthIndicator.java
file found in the actuator package.
Let's take a look at it. To create a custom metric, all you
need to do is implement the HealthIndicator interface and
then override the health method.
This will determine the health of the dependent service. So let's take
a look at this. On line 13, there's a method,
isRunningServicePeopleService. Here on line 18, I'm simply returning
false as a test. In the real world, you would add real logic here to
test if the People Service is up and running.
I skipped it for demo purposes.
So, if the People Service is not running on line 14, we return
Health.down with a detailed message of Not Available, else we return
Health.up with a detailed message of Available.
So let's see this in action.
I've already deployed the application, and it's up and running.
So this is the Actuator link, nothing different here, but now
let's click on health. Notice the status of the application is no
longer UP, it has the status of DOWN.
Although the database here, the DB, is UP and the diskSpace is UP, because the
PeopleService returns Not Available and has a status of DOWN, the entire application is marked DOWN.